README.md, before:

# Speech to Text 🚀
This repo create ASR system by using toolkits PLUS own implementations.


Toolkits used: 
- [Mozilla Deep Speech](#mozilla-deep-speech)
- [DeepSpeech2](#deepspeech2) 
- [Wave2vec](#wav2vec-20) 
- [Jasper](#jasper) 
- [Our Implementations](#my-own-implementations)

<br>

TIP : If you want to just use the scripts( text_cleaning / data_collecting/ create final dataset csv files) simply use requirements.txt to install important dependencies.
```
pip3 install requirements.txt
```


# Prerequisites 📋

You need to know about RNNs, Attention mechanism, CTC, a little pandas/numpy, Tensorflow, KERAS and NLP Stuff(e.g. transformers, text cleaning etc. ). Also knowing about Spectrograms, MFCC, Filter Bank will help you to understand preprocess of audios. <br><br>
if you don't know any of these stuff you can check Wiki page there are many links

<br>

# Models Output 🎯
<table width="100%">
 <tr>
   <th width="30%"> model Name  </th> 
   <th width="40%"> DataSet </th> 
   <th width="70%"> Loss  </th> 
 </tr>

<tr>
   <td width="25%"> our own implementations : (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice_en (400h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 74 ( So bad results / many models tested. ) </td>
 </tr>

 <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 28 </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla (second try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 25</td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla + Transfer Learning (third try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 24</td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla + Transfer Learning (third try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 22 </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 2 : Tnesor_Speech (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Wave2vec 2.0 </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

   <tr>
   <td width="25%"> Jasper </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

</table>


# Dataset we used 📁
there are many public datasets for English. But for persian there is not enough and free STT dataset.So we created our own data crawler for collecting data.

[common voice dataset](https://voice.mozilla.org/en/datasets) is a rich free dataset.<br>



# Mozilla Deep Speech
### clone and download common voice dataset 
To use this toolkit you must first do what  [this link ](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html) says or follow short Installation blow.

Currently we are using DeepSpeech V0.9.3

#### Short Installation
- Clone and create virtual enviroments
```
git clone --branch v0.9.3 https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech
cd DeepSpeech
pip3 install --upgrade pip==20.2.2 wheel==0.34.2 setuptools==49.6.0
pip3 install --upgrade -e .
pip install tensorflow-gpu==1.15.4
```

After cloning and install dependecies you need [common voice dataset](https://voice.mozilla.org/en/datasets).
Download the proper language and then preprocessing. all the steps for preprocess common voice dataset is documented in [here](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html) too.

- Start training
```
‫‪python3‬‬ ‫‪DeepSpeech.py‬‬ ‫‪--train_files‬‬ ‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/train.csv‬‬ ‫‪--dev_files‬‬ \
‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/dev.csv‬‬ ‫‪--test_files‬‬ ‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/test.csv‬‬
```


### your own dataset
if you want to create your own dataset you need these TIPS : 
*   all your audio files must be in wav format
*   your audios must be in :  16khz / 16bitpersample / mono / no noise ( optional ) 
*   don't use more than 30 minutes of audio files recorded by one person
*   at least you must have 300h of data.
*   you need a csv file for all the audio files you have. you can see the structure of csv file after you preprocessed the common voice files by import_cv2.py( this python file is in Deepspeech repo. you'll have it after cloning)
*   and also you need to clean your transcripts (Some more NLP task :) ).
*   (optional) if you want to use my crawler to create dataset you can check crawler.py (in crawler folder ) and parallel.py(in data_collector folder) file.
*   (optional) if you want to use my transcription desktop application you can check [ciacada repository](https://github.com/shenasa-ai/cicada-audio-annotation-tool)
*  ( optional ) you can use my scripts to clean transcripts and make final csv file. they are available in github
* don't worry about creating spectrogram/FastFourier/MFCC/Filterbank , Mozilla will do it all for you.
* TODO :  need to remember more tips.

### Language model
you need language model for testing the model. the language model is trained on [Kenlm](https://github.com/kpu/kenlm)

the steps to train language model is [here](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/v0.9.3/Scorer.html)

text file size : 2GB

test file to optimize : 20M


TIP : You can use just this language model :| not any other.
<br>

after all these steps it means you have your dataset ready and you want to train . if you want to train on English there is no more steps **BUT** if you are in another language ( like persian ) you need to check transfer learning part of [this link](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html#transfer-learning-new-alphabet)
TIP : don't forget to change alphabete.txt

Question : can I use Other languages checkpoints to start transfer learning? Sure, do it. But remember to drop weights of last N layers.

you may need the meaning of flags to use all the abilities of mozilla deep speech. [check their Documentation](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/v0.9.3/Flags.html)

Tip : if you faced with CUDA/CudNN errors. try to use conda and install proper versions.

<br>
<br>
<hr>

## DeepSpeech2
using TensorSpeech
[Link to repository](https://github.com/TensorSpeech/TensorFlowASR)
their repo is really complete and you can pass their steps to train a model but I will say some tips : 

*   to change any option you need to change config.yml file
*   Remember to change alphabetes. you need to change the vocabulary in config.yml file
* the dataset in this repo is a little different. you must have tsv file. and columns hav different names and values
*   (optional) to prepare your own dataset for this approach you can use my script. it is available in github

### Language model
in this repo you can use any language model. even kenlm.


<br>
<hr>

## Wav2vec 2.0
using facebook fairseq toolkit
SOON 


<br>
<hr>

## Jasper
using Nvidia NeMo Toolkit
Soon

## My Own Implementations

### Installation 🔧

Some libraries you need to install. I'll list them here ( These are the most important ) : <br>
* ffmpeg
* pydub
* python_speech_features
* numpy V1.18.1
* pandas V1.0.1
* tensorflow  V2.1.0
* sklearn V0.22.2.post1
* librosa V0.7.2
<br> <br>
In next line I'll show how to install three of them ( I used these commands to install in Kaggle Notebooks too.)<br>

```
pip install pydub
```

``` 
pip install python_speech_features
```

``` 
!apt-get install -y ffmpeg
``` 

the codes are developed to use commonvoice data. make sure your data are in that format.


# Hyperparameters

all the steps for training models are documented in a txt file. they are uploaded in google drive. you can check there if needed.

<br>

# WIKI page 📖
Visit our wiki page for more info about Tutorials, useful Links, Hardware Info, Result and other things. 


<br>

# Contributing 🖇️

If you want to help us for better models and new approaches, please contact us, we will be happy
<br>
Email : Soon...

Commit message:

more detail for data collecting added

README.md, after:

# Speech to Text 🚀
This repo create ASR system by using toolkits PLUS own implementations.


Toolkits used: 
- [Mozilla Deep Speech](#mozilla-deep-speech)
- [DeepSpeech2](#deepspeech2) 
- [Wave2vec](#wav2vec-20) 
- [Jasper](#jasper) 
- [Our Implementations](#my-own-implementations)

<br>

TIP : If you want to just use the scripts( text_cleaning / data_collecting/ create final dataset csv files) simply use requirements.txt to install important dependencies.
```
pip3 install requirements.txt
```


# Prerequisites 📋

You need to know about RNNs, Attention mechanism, CTC, a little pandas/numpy, Tensorflow, KERAS and NLP Stuff(e.g. transformers, text cleaning etc. ). Also knowing about Spectrograms, MFCC, Filter Bank will help you to understand preprocess of audios. <br><br>
if you don't know any of these stuff you can check Wiki page there are many links

<br>

# Models Output 🎯
<table width="100%">
 <tr>
   <th width="30%"> model Name  </th> 
   <th width="40%"> DataSet </th> 
   <th width="70%"> Loss  </th> 
 </tr>

<tr>
   <td width="25%"> our own implementations : (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice_en (400h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 74 ( So bad results / many models tested. ) </td>
 </tr>

 <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 28 </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla (second try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 25</td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla + Transfer Learning (third try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 300h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 24</td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 1 : Mozilla + Transfer Learning (third try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> 22 </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Deep Speech 2 : Tnesor_Speech (first try) </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

  <tr>
   <td width="25%">Wave2vec 2.0 </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

   <tr>
   <td width="25%"> Jasper </td>
   <td width="25%"> common_voice + tv programms + radio programs (totally 1000h) </td>
 <td width="25%"> Soon ... </td>
 </tr>

</table>


# Dataset we used 📁
there are many public datasets for English. But for persian there is not enough and free STT dataset.So we created our own data crawler for collecting data.

[common voice dataset](https://voice.mozilla.org/en/datasets) is a rich free dataset.<br>

### How to use our script to collect data
in this repo there are 2 folders:
-  **data collector** 
- **crawler**

**crawler** : this folder has one script. the script will crawl in radio archive and collect the data we need. you can edit this crawler to download other websites too. [More info Check README file in crawler folder]

**data collector**  : this folder contain one script too. the script will change format of your video files to wav, then slice them and will find transcript for them.you can set the treshhold for script, this threshold will be the confidence level for collecting dataset. the output will be csv files and wav audio files. [More info Check README file in data collector folder]

# Mozilla Deep Speech
### clone and download common voice dataset 
To use this toolkit you must first do what  [this link ](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html) says or follow short Installation blow.

Currently we are using DeepSpeech V0.9.3

#### Short Installation
- Clone and create virtual enviroments
```
git clone --branch v0.9.3 https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech
cd DeepSpeech
pip3 install --upgrade pip==20.2.2 wheel==0.34.2 setuptools==49.6.0
pip3 install --upgrade -e .
pip install tensorflow-gpu==1.15.4
```

After cloning and install dependecies you need [common voice dataset](https://voice.mozilla.org/en/datasets).
Download the proper language and then preprocessing. all the steps for preprocess common voice dataset is documented in [here](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html) too.

- Start training
```
‫‪python3‬‬ ‫‪DeepSpeech.py‬‬ ‫‪--train_files‬‬ ‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/train.csv‬‬ ‫‪--dev_files‬‬ \
‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/dev.csv‬‬ ‫‪--test_files‬‬ ‫‪../data/CV/en/clips/test.csv‬‬
```


### your own dataset
if you want to create your own dataset you need these TIPS : 
*   all your audio files must be in wav format
*   your audios must be in :  16khz / 16bitpersample / mono / no noise ( optional ) 
*   don't use more than 30 minutes of audio files recorded by one person
*   at least you must have 300h of data.
*   you need a csv file for all the audio files you have. you can see the structure of csv file after you preprocessed the common voice files by import_cv2.py( this python file is in Deepspeech repo. you'll have it after cloning)
*   and also you need to clean your transcripts (Some more NLP task :) ).
*   (optional) if you want to use my crawler to create dataset you can check crawler.py (in crawler folder ) and parallel.py(in data_collector folder) file.
*   (optional) if you want to use my transcription desktop application you can check [ciacada repository](https://github.com/shenasa-ai/cicada-audio-annotation-tool)
*  ( optional ) you can use my scripts to clean transcripts and make final csv file. they are available in github
* don't worry about creating spectrogram/FastFourier/MFCC/Filterbank , Mozilla will do it all for you.
* TODO :  need to remember more tips.

### Language model
you need language model for testing the model. the language model is trained on [Kenlm](https://github.com/kpu/kenlm)

the steps to train language model is [here](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/v0.9.3/Scorer.html)

text file size : 2GB

test file to optimize : 20M


TIP : You can use just this language model :| not any other.
<br>

after all these steps it means you have your dataset ready and you want to train . if you want to train on English there is no more steps **BUT** if you are in another language ( like persian ) you need to check transfer learning part of [this link](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/latest/TRAINING.html#transfer-learning-new-alphabet)
TIP : don't forget to change alphabete.txt

Question : can I use Other languages checkpoints to start transfer learning? Sure, do it. But remember to drop weights of last N layers.

you may need the meaning of flags to use all the abilities of mozilla deep speech. [check their Documentation](https://deepspeech.readthedocs.io/en/v0.9.3/Flags.html)

Tip : if you faced with CUDA/CudNN errors. try to use conda and install proper versions.

<br>
<br>
<hr>

## DeepSpeech2
using TensorSpeech
[Link to repository](https://github.com/TensorSpeech/TensorFlowASR)
their repo is really complete and you can pass their steps to train a model but I will say some tips : 

*   to change any option you need to change config.yml file
*   Remember to change alphabetes. you need to change the vocabulary in config.yml file
* the dataset in this repo is a little different. you must have tsv file. and columns hav different names and values
*   (optional) to prepare your own dataset for this approach you can use my script. it is available in github

### Language model
in this repo you can use any language model. even kenlm.


<br>
<hr>

## Wav2vec 2.0
using facebook fairseq toolkit
SOON 


<br>
<hr>

## Jasper
using Nvidia NeMo Toolkit
Soon

## My Own Implementations

### Installation 🔧

Some libraries you need to install. I'll list them here ( These are the most important ) : <br>
* ffmpeg
* pydub
* python_speech_features
* numpy V1.18.1
* pandas V1.0.1
* tensorflow  V2.1.0
* sklearn V0.22.2.post1
* librosa V0.7.2
<br> <br>
In next line I'll show how to install three of them ( I used these commands to install in Kaggle Notebooks too.)<br>

```
pip install pydub
```

``` 
pip install python_speech_features
```

``` 
!apt-get install -y ffmpeg
``` 

the codes are developed to use commonvoice data. make sure your data are in that format.


# Hyperparameters

all the steps for training models are documented in a txt file. they are uploaded in google drive. you can check there if needed.

<br>

# WIKI page 📖
Visit our wiki page for more info about Tutorials, useful Links, Hardware Info, Result and other things. 


<br>

# Contributing 🖇️

If you want to help us for better models and new approaches, please contact us, we will be happy
<br>
Email : Soon...
